{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red67\green67\blue67;\red235\green235\blue235;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Editor:\
I have just finished reading\
the November 13th Racktalk\
column. This fuss over the jazz\
issue has been very amusing,\
very interesting, and also very\
idiotic. Although I am a Dixie\'ad\
land fan (\'93fig\'94 to the modern\
cats), I am not trying to sell\
my interests to anyone. I would,\
however, like to clear up loose\
and sloppy ends.\
Modern jazz is definitely a\
progressive form of music. It is\
directly connected to commer\'ad\
cialism, big bands, arrange\'ad\
ments and the public. The par\'ad\
ticipants in a modern jazz band\
play to and for the people.\
Their style of music is high\'ad\
strung, fast and loud. Its\
uniqueness is the installment of\
new sounds and an inexhaust\'ad\
ible supply of new songs, all of\
which sound exactly the same to\
anybody other than the \'93gates\'94\
who dig the stuff.\
On the other hand, Dixieland\
is a backstreet sort of jazz. The\
musicians are highly artistic\
and do not rely on orchestra\'ad\
tions or arrangements. Nor do\
they have or need a director. If\
anyone wishes to \'93sit ip\'94 and\
listen, they \'abre welcome. The\
characteristics of a jazz band\
of this sort are: smallness (usu\'ad\
ally limited to six players), an\
inter-play of slow blues, rag\'ad\
time, and fast, bouncy tunes, and\
complete independence to use\
solos and adlibs as the oppor\'ad\
tunities arise for such.\
Which music is the oldest?\
Dixieland by about 30 years.\
Progressive jazz was introduced\
bv the swing bands of the 19305.\
Which music is the best? Like\
every other debatable question\
in the world, that is strictly up\
to the individual. I concede any\
favoritism to the Progressives.\
After all they want it the most.\
I also suggest the matter be\
dropped.\
Richard Fdererick.\
Sway\
Editor:\
Although I don\'92t wish to per\'ad\
petuate the dixieland vsv Pro\
gressive Jazz hassle brewing on\
campus I feel, as do many\
others, that such infantile state\'ad\
ments as those printed in recent\
issues of the DRK deserve some'\
comment.\
In the first place, it is exactly\
such obnoxious remarks as those\
made by pseudo-hip progres\'ad\
sivites that taint the whole\
realm of Progressive jazz. Any\
real jazz fan deserving of re\'ad\
cognition would never be so\
dogmatic or un-enlightened as to\
scorn a musical movement which\
has contributed so greatly to the\
development of Progressive jazz\
as has Dixieland.\
Secondly, Progressive jazz is\
not \'93Re-Rop\'94, nor is it just an\
incomprehensible variation on\
\'93Swing\'94. Rather, it is a whole\
new field opening up wide hori\'ad\
zons of artistic and intuitive\
improvization; and it is notice\'ad\
ably founded on a high degree\
of technical musicianship and a\
deep respect for Symphonic and\
Classical arrangement. Good de\'ad\
finitions of the essence of this,\
movement have been offered by\
Dave Rrubeck nationally in\
\'93Downbeat\'94 magazine and by\
Willis Conover locally in a\
three - week \'93Times - Heral''\
series, but even these are subjc -t\
to individual taste and interpre\'ad\
tation. Quote the inimitable\
Louis Armstrong when asked\
for a definition of Jazz: \'93Yr',\
always asks, but \'92cha never gets\
t\'92 know\'94.\
Thirdly, knowing many of the\
members of the Conover-Theimer\
\'93Dig Rand\'94 personally, I\'92m\
quite sure that such representa\'ad\
tive Progressive musicians as\
Jack Holiday, Charley Walp,\
Mert Oliver, Marky Markowitz,\
and Joe Theimer are not at all\
happy about being so grossly\
mis-represented by a pack of\
high-schoolish zelots, such as\
those letter writers of last Fri\'ad\
day\'92s DRK issue. In factxthose\
supposedly v\'93cool\'94 people would\
have been exceedingly embar\'ad\
rassed by the comments I re\'ad\
received when I showed their\
ridiculous letter to Marky and\
some of the other musicians.\
And finally, the so called\
\'93hip\'94 language is strictly passe\
except for such ostentatious\
pseudos who would like to feel\
that they belong to the jazz\
world. Musicians, who have\
invented and used their own\
specialized universal terms and\
sayings for over 30 years, are\
now appalled by the commer\'ad\
cialization and cliqueism which\
has become an adolescent-like\
fad, and they have largely\
abandoned the useage of what is\
rightfully their own.\
See you around,\
Ted Smith, MS Senior.}